README.md, before:

# MMM-SL
This an extension for the [MagicMirror](https://github.com/MichMich/MagicMirror). It can fetch realtime information from SL.se and show departure times for the configured stops.

## Screenshots
Time sorting:
![Debug output time sort](/img/debug_time_sort.png?raw=true 'debug time sort')

Direction time sort
![Debug output directionTime sort](/img/debug_directiontime_sort.png?raw=true 'debug output direction sort')


## Installation
Navigate into your MagicMirror's `modules` folder and execute `git clone https://github.com/teppos/MMM-SL.git`.


## Using the module

To use this module, add it to the modules array in the `config/config.js` file:
```javascript
modules: [
  {
    module: "MMM-SL",
    config: {
          debug: true,
          realtimeappid: "YOUR_TRAFIKLAB_REALTIME_API_KEY",
          timewindow: "10",
          updateNotification: "UPDATE_SL",
          sorting: "time",
          convertTimeToMinutes: true,
          showRecentlyPassed: false,
          showLastUpdatedAlways: false,
          lastUpdatedInTitle: false,
          siteids: [LIST OF SITEID OBJECTS HERE],
          // See "Configuration options" for more information.
    }
  }
]
```

## Configuration options

The following properties can be configured:

| Option                 | Description                                         |
|:-----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------|
| **realtimeappid**      | The API key for the realtime data, which can be obtained at  [www.trafiklab.se](https://www.trafiklab.se/api/sl-realtidsinformation-4) |
| **timewindow**         | The time window which departures should be downloaded. In minutes from now. Min `1`. Max `60`. Default `10` |
| **siteids**            | List of siteid objects. See explanation below of siteids |
| **updateNotification** | The notification to listen for. If received then will trigger update of departure times. |
| **debug** | Show debug information in view, like walking distance, siteid and direction for the different entries |
| **convertTimeToMinutes** | Instead of showing a departure time as 22:10, tries to convert it to amount of minutes left, like: 15 min |
| **showRecentlyPassed** | If you don't want to see those departures which just left, set this to false |
| **sorting** | possible values: **time**, **directionTime**. <br/> **time** sorts after derparture time (ExpectedDateTime field from API.)<br/> **directionTime** sorts first after direction and then time. <br/> See screenshots. |
| **showLastUpdatedAlways** | set to true if you always want to display lastUpdated time |
| **lastUpdatedInTitle** | set to true if you want to display lastUpdated time in the title, otherwise it will be shown at the top |



### API key

The API key is free but registration is required.

Note: there is a limit on how many calls you can make per minute (30) and per month (10 000) you can make. If you have several stops you want to track, I recommend that you don't update it with a timer, otherwise you will see that after a while you will get an error message instead. The recommended way is to trigger the update either with a button or similiar.

### Siteid list

Easiest way to find a siteid for your stop is from sl.se. Search for your stop with 'Next stop'-feature. The siteId is the last number in the URL: ex T-centralen = `9001`

A siteid contains of an `id` and `type` which is an optional list of transportation types.

```javascript
...
siteids: [
  {
    id: "9001", // Mandatory
    type: ["bus", "metro"], // Optional
    walkTime: 5, // Optional
    direction: 1, // Optional
    timewindow: 30, // Optional
    displayCount: 5 // Optional
  },
  ...
]
...
```

| Option                 | Description                                         |
|:-----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------|
| **id** | **Mandatory** siteid for the stop. <br/> Easiest way to find a siteid for your stop is from [sl.se](https://sl.se). Search for your stop with 'Next stop'-feature. The siteId is the last number in the URL: ex T-centralen = `9001`|
| **type** | **Optional** List of transportation. <br/> Can be any of `["metro", "bus", "train", "tram", "ship"]`. <br/> If type is not entered then all transportation types are shown. |
| **walkTime** | **Optional**  Walk time to stop in minutes. Filters out the entries which are less time than this |
| **direction** | **Optional** Direction, if only want to show entries in one direction. I.e. show only metro times in one direction. <br/> Use *debug* mode (see above) to see which direction îs which. |
| **timewindow** | **Optional** time window for this stop. if you want some other timewindow for just this stop. |
| **displayCount** | **Optional** How many entries is shown for this stop. <br/>If using **directionTime** sort, this is how many entries is shown for each direction. |

  **Example 1:** show only bus and metro departures from T-centralen

```javascript
siteids: [
  {
    id: "9001",
    type: ["bus", "metro"] // Optional
  },
]
```

  **Example 2:** show all departures from T-centralen

```javascript
siteids: [
  {
    id: "9001"
  },
]
```
### Events

This module listens for 2 events:
* **UPDATE_SL** (default value, see config to change this if necessary). <br/> When this event is received the module will make a new call and refresh its values.
* **DECREMENT_SL** When this event is received it will count down the existing values (not clock values, i.e. when it has an exact time like 12:15). <br/> This will **not** make a new API call.

I use another MagicMirror module [MMM-ModuleScheduler](https://github.com/ianperrin/MMM-ModuleScheduler) to send the DECREMENT_SL event every minute.
You can also send the UPDATE_SL event according to a schedule but The important thing is to remember to not update the values too often cause then it's a high risk that you will exceed your allowed limit on calls / month.

For example send only the update event during the morning when you know you are about to travel to work.
Example configuration for MMM-ModuleScheduler:

```javascript
{
  module: "MMM-ModuleScheduler",
  config: {
    notification_schedule: [
      { notification: "DECREMENT_SL", schedule: "0-59 6-23 * * *", },
    ],
  },
},
```
See [MMM-ModuleScheduler](https://github.com/ianperrin/MMM-ModuleScheduler) for more information.

### Example configuration

```javascript
{
  module: "MMM-SL",
  header: "Departure times",
  position: "top_right",
  config: {
    debug: false,
    realtimeappid: "YOUR_TRAFIKLAB_REALTIME_API_KEY",
    timewindow: "10",
    sorting: "directionTime",
    updateNotification: "UPDATE_SL",
    convertTimeToMinutes: true,
    showRecentlyPassed: false,
    showLastUpdatedAlways: true,
    lastUpdatedInTitle:true,
    siteids: [
      {
      	id: "9001", // T-Centralen
      	type: ["metro"],
      	timewindow: 30,
      	displayCount: 5,
      },
    ],
  }
},
```

Commit message:

Update README with more info

README.md, after:

# MMM-SL
This an extension for the [MagicMirror](https://github.com/MichMich/MagicMirror). It can fetch realtime information from SL.se and show departure times for the configured stops.

## Screenshots
Time sorting:
![Debug output time sort](/img/debug_time_sort.png?raw=true 'debug time sort')

Direction time sort
![Debug output directionTime sort](/img/debug_directiontime_sort.png?raw=true 'debug output direction sort')


## Installation
Navigate into your MagicMirror's `modules` folder and execute `git clone https://github.com/teppos/MMM-SL.git`.


## Using the module

To use this module, add it to the modules array in the `config/config.js` file:
```javascript
modules: [
  {
    module: "MMM-SL",
    config: {
          debug: true,
          realtimeappid: "YOUR_TRAFIKLAB_REALTIME_API_KEY",
          timewindow: "10",
          updateNotification: "UPDATE_SL",
          sorting: "time",
          convertTimeToMinutes: true,
          showRecentlyPassed: false,
          showLastUpdatedAlways: false,
          lastUpdatedInTitle: false,
          pirEventCheck: true,
          preventInterval: 30,
          siteids: [LIST OF SITEID OBJECTS HERE],
          // See "Configuration options" for more information.
    }
  }
]
```

## Configuration options

The following properties can be configured:

| Option                 | Description                                         |
|:-----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------|
| **realtimeappid**      | The API key for the realtime data, which can be obtained at  [www.trafiklab.se](https://www.trafiklab.se/api/sl-realtidsinformation-4) |
| **timewindow**         | The time window which departures should be downloaded. In minutes from now. Min `1`. Max `60`. Default `10` |
| **siteids**            | List of siteid objects. See explanation below of siteids |
| **updateNotification** | The notification to listen for. If received then will trigger update of departure times. |
| **debug** | Show debug information in view, like walking distance, siteid and direction for the different entries |
| **convertTimeToMinutes** | Instead of showing a departure time as 22:10, tries to convert it to amount of minutes left, like: 15 min |
| **showRecentlyPassed** | If you don't want to see those departures which just left, set this to false |
| **sorting** | possible values: **time**, **directionTime**. <br/> **time** sorts after derparture time (ExpectedDateTime field from API.)<br/> **directionTime** sorts first after direction and then time. <br/> See screenshots. |
| **showLastUpdatedAlways** | set to true if you always want to display lastUpdated time |
| **lastUpdatedInTitle** | set to true if you want to display lastUpdated time in the title, otherwise it will be shown at the top |
| **pirEventCheck** | if `true` then module will update departureTime when get a `USER_PRESENCE` event which is sent eg. from [MMM-PIR-Sensor](https://github.com/paviro/MMM-PIR-Sensor) module. Will not update again for until `preventInterval` seconds has passed. Default: true |
| **preventInterval** | Number of seconds that have to pass after an update so that multiple update requests will not be sent. Default: 30 |

### API key

The API key is free but registration is required.

Note: there is a limit on how many calls you can make per minute (30) and per month (10 000) you can make. If you have several stops you want to track, I recommend that you don't update it with a timer, otherwise you will see that after a while you will get an error message instead. The recommended way is to trigger the update either with a button or similiar.

### Siteid list

Easiest way to find a siteid for your stop is from sl.se. Search for your stop with 'Next stop'-feature. The siteId is the last number in the URL: ex T-centralen = `9001`

A siteid contains of an `id` and `type` which is an optional list of transportation types.

```javascript
...
siteids: [
  {
    id: "9001", // Mandatory
    type: ["bus", "metro"], // Optional
    walkTime: 5, // Optional
    direction: 1, // Optional
    timewindow: 30, // Optional
    displayCount: 5 // Optional
  },
  ...
]
...
```

| Option                 | Description                                         |
|:-----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------|
| **id** | **Mandatory** siteid for the stop. <br/> Easiest way to find a siteid for your stop is from [sl.se](https://sl.se). Search for your stop with 'Next stop'-feature. The siteId is the last number in the URL: ex T-centralen = `9001`|
| **type** | **Optional** List of transportation. <br/> Can be any of `["metro", "bus", "train", "tram", "ship"]`. <br/> If type is not entered then all transportation types are shown. |
| **walkTime** | **Optional**  Walk time to stop in minutes. Filters out the entries which are less time than this |
| **direction** | **Optional** Direction, if only want to show entries in one direction. I.e. show only metro times in one direction. <br/> Use *debug* mode (see above) to see which direction îs which. |
| **timewindow** | **Optional** time window for this stop. if you want some other timewindow for just this stop. |
| **displayCount** | **Optional** How many entries is shown for this stop. <br/>If using **directionTime** sort, this is how many entries is shown for each direction. |

  **Example 1:** show only bus and metro departures from T-centralen

```javascript
siteids: [
  {
    id: "9001",
    type: ["bus", "metro"] // Optional
  },
]
```

  **Example 2:** show all departures from T-centralen

```javascript
siteids: [
  {
    id: "9001"
  },
]
```
### Events

This module listens for 3 events:
* **UPDATE_SL** (default value, see config to change this if necessary). <br/> When this event is received the module will make a new call and refresh its values.
* **DECREMENT_SL** When this event is received it will count down the existing values (not clock values, i.e. when it has an exact time like 12:15). <br/> This will **not** make a new API call.
* **USER_PRESENCE** When this event is received (eg. from [MMM-PIR-Sensor](https://github.com/paviro/MMM-PIR-Sensor) module) it will update departure times.

Now I mainly use the PIR-sensor to send events when I'm in front of the screen/mirror which will then update the departure times automatically.

Earlier I used another MagicMirror module [MMM-ModuleScheduler](https://github.com/ianperrin/MMM-ModuleScheduler) to send the DECREMENT_SL event every minute.
You can also send the UPDATE_SL event according to a schedule but The important thing is to remember to not update the values too often cause then it's a high risk that you will exceed your allowed limit on calls / month.

For example send only the update event during the morning when you know you are about to travel to work.
Example configuration for MMM-ModuleScheduler:

```javascript
{
  module: "MMM-ModuleScheduler",
  config: {
    notification_schedule: [
      { notification: "DECREMENT_SL", schedule: "0-59 6-23 * * *", },
    ],
  },
},
```
See [MMM-ModuleScheduler](https://github.com/ianperrin/MMM-ModuleScheduler) for more information.

### Example configuration

```javascript
{
  module: "MMM-SL",
  header: "Departure times",
  position: "top_right",
  config: {
    debug: false,
    realtimeappid: "YOUR_TRAFIKLAB_REALTIME_API_KEY",
    timewindow: "10",
    sorting: "directionTime",
    updateNotification: "UPDATE_SL",
    convertTimeToMinutes: true,
    showRecentlyPassed: false,
    showLastUpdatedAlways: true,
    lastUpdatedInTitle:true,
    siteids: [
      {
      	id: "9001", // T-Centralen
      	type: ["metro"],
      	timewindow: 30,
      	displayCount: 5,
      },
    ],
  }
},
```
